Installation and execution of AntEpiSeeker2.0

1) Compile:

On Linux systems: GNU Scientific Library (GSL) should be installed before
compiling. Compile the program using "g++ AntEpiSeeker.cpp
-o AntEpiSeeker -lgsl -lgslcblas" and run the program using "./AntEpiSeeker". 

On windows systems: GNU Scientific Library (GSL) files
"libgsl.dll","libslcblas.dll" and "WinGsl.dll" should be put in the same
folder with AntEpiSeeker as well as your system folder (e.g.,
"c:\\windows\\system32"). Compile the program using a C++ compiler.

2) Input Format

The user should create a tab-delimited file which contains the case-control genotype data 
as the input for the program. The first row of the input file contains the
sample status (0 or 1). The following rows are the genotype data which should
be coded by 0, 1 and 2 with each row corresponding to one SNP. For example,

class	1	1	1	0	0

rs1	0	1	1	2	2

rs2	1	2	0	1	2

rs3	2	2	1	2	1

rs4	2	2	1	1	2

The user should also make a tab-delimited file which contains information of
pathway-SNP associations. Each pathway should be placed in one row, with first
column specifying the pathway ID and the following columns containing its
associated SNPs. For example,

pw1	rs1	rs2	rs3

pw2	rs4	rs5

pw3	rs6	rs7	rs8	rs9


A complete testing dataset is available at
http://lambchop.ads.uga.edu/AntEpiSeeker2_testing_data.zip.

3) Parameter file

The parameters for running AntEpiSeeker are specified in the "parameters.txt" file. These parameters include iAntCount, iItCountHsize, alpha, iTopModel, iTopLoci, rou, phe, largesetsize, smallsetsize, iEpiModel, pvalue, pwprop, PWSNPFL, INPFILE, OUTFILE and PWYFILE. 

The parameter "iEpiModel" specifies the number of SNPs in an epistatic interaction. The parameters "largesetsize", "smallsetsize" must be greater than "iEpiModel". For two-locus interaction model, we suggest largesetsize=6, smallsetsize=3, iEpiMode=2; For three-locus interaction model, we suggest largesetsize=6, smallsetsize=4, iEpiModel=3.

The parameter "iItCountHsize" should be chosen according to the number of SNPs
genotyped in the data. Typically, we suggest iItCountHsize=200 for <=100000 SNPs
and iItCountHsize=1000 for >100000 SNPs.


4) Output

Four output files will be generated by AntEpiSeeker. "AntEpiSeeker.log" under the
AntEpiSeeker directory records the intermediate results including the detected
top ranked SNP sets and the loci with top pheromone levels.
"results_maximized.txt" records all detected epistatic interactions meeting
the pre-defined P-value threshold. The OUTFILE and PWYFILE specified by the user in the
parameter file report the detected epistatic interactions with minimized
false positives and sorted pathways according to pheromones respectively.

5) Support

Questions and comments should be directed to Yupeng Wang (wyp1125@gmail.com).

